

Knowledge and configuration of AWS ( Amazon Web Services ) like EC2, RDS, Cloudfront, S3, Route53, ELB, AutoScaling, Glacier, VPC, IAM, bootstrap, cloudwatch, SNS, SQS, SES, Elastic Beanstalk, OpsWork & Cloudformation . 

 Configuration & management of network authentication protocol 'kerberos' for excess security & providing single sign on by integrating GSSAPI with services like SSH etc .

 Configuration of HA-proxy providing High Availability & load balancing for web & database servers. Using apache mod_proxy providing simple request redirection from DMZ to backend servers in a private network for further security.

Knowledge of F5 & A10 Load Balancers . 

Configuration & management of Bind DNS server as primary/master and secondary/slave.Using cache & forwarder only configurations to decrease the response time .

Knowledge and configuration of distributed filesystems like GlusterFS & AFS . Used GlusterFS in AWS EC2 for bootstrapping & autoscaling .

Configuration of NFS server with autofs for automatic mounting & unmounting, effectively used in mounting roaming users home directory on login .

Configuration and deployment of Apache HTTP & Apache tomcat server for Java applications providing high availability & load balancing using connectors.

Hardening linux security & centralized logging by configuring kernel sysctl parameters, locking crons, fail2ban, IDS, maldet, rsyslog , logstash etc .

Managing,customizing & recovery of Applications & kernel using chroot, e2fsck, menuconfig & fakeroot .

Configuration & management of Logical Volume Manager ( LVM ) for creating large Volume Groups & Performing operations online .

Knowledge & configuration of centralized infrastructure management operating systems like Univention, Zentyal, ClearOS .

Using Bash & Perl scripts for automating day to day tasks. You can view some of my bash scripts on below URL -

RMN

  Managing linux servers in private network and client's servers on different hostings like AWS, Linode, Hivelocity, DigitalOcean, Godaddy, Hostgator, Rackspace etc across the globe.

 Installation and configuration of VPS and dedicated servers with robust LAMP server optimized with Varnish, Memcached, php FastCGI, php memcache, MySQL Innodb.

 DNS and Web hosting management through Cpanel, WHM, Webmin, Virtualmin.

 Installation and configuration of XMPP server with ODBC enabled connection with MySQL.

 Configuring Squid proxy & package server/cache management to increase efficiency of resources.

 Installation and configuration of OpenLDAP server with NFS and PAM(Pluggable Authentication Module).

 Configuring Kickstart, PXE/NetBoot, DHCP, NFS, TFTP, Samba & VNC servers.

 Configuration of Nagios, Observium, Zabbix, NRPE, Monit, NewRelic, Munin, Linodelongview programs for server monitoring.

  Installation and configuration of FTP,subversion, DenyHosts( bruteforce attacks),Maldet appications.

 Managing firewalls( iptables ), analyzing & removing security loopholes at user,LAN,DMZ & WAN levels, 

  Installation and configuration of VPS and deploying Ruby on Rails and PHP applications on Amazon and Heroku/Openshift.

  URL manipulations and optimizations through htaccess with mod deflate and Gzip with apache.

  Writing efficient bash/shell scripts to monitor and automate activities & daily routine tasks.

  Beginner level experience with virtualization technologies like KVM( qemu, libvirt), Oracle virtual Box & Vmware .

  Configuration of Postfix Email servers with OpenDKIM and SPF.

  Installation and configuration of OpenERP/odoo servers.

  Regular endeavors to upgrade computer security & company infrastructure.

                
